# Transaction-Category-Anlaysis
The bank systems and customer experience nowadays are getting more advanced with more functions to improve customer satisfaction. One of the important functions that customers enjoy from their bank is the summary of their spending in a period. Customer can view their spending summary of what percent their spending is on what categories. This service not only enables customers to realize if they are overspending in a certain category but also save customers a bunch of time to document their daily spending. This service provides precise and informed information for customers to manage their finances, which plays a crucial role for every individual and household.
While to make sure this service works out great, the most important task is to make sure each transaction is classified into the correct category. With this goal in mind, the main object of this project is to correctly categorize each transaction based on historical data, such as spending amount and brand name. In this project, I mainly focused on brand names. I use NLTK and linear SVM model with text feature (coalesced_brand) in this project.
From the standpoint of Wells Fargo and its users, the main task is to satisfy and provided correct information for clients. This project will answer the question of what category is this transaction in and further provides the total amount customers spent on each category to device marketing strategy or promotion campaign.
I hope my work will inform credit card department and its clients with their financial statements. Assist client with managing daily purchases and live a satisfying life with Wells Fargo as their life-long partner.
